# Class: BlipKitAssembler

Inherits: *RefCounted*

**Generate byte code from instructions.**

## Description

Generated byte code can be interpreted and executed with [`BlipKitInterpreter`](BlipKitInterpreter.md).

Named labels can be used to create function calls and loops.

**Example:** Generate instructions to play an iconic startup sound:

```gdscript
var assem := BlipKitAssembler.new()

# Initialize track.
assem.put(BlipKitAssembler.INSTR_WAVEFORM, BlipKitTrack.WAVEFORM_SQUARE)
assem.put(BlipKitAssembler.INSTR_DUTY_CYCLE, 8)

# Define a label "start" to loop back.
assem.put_label("start")

# Play notes.
assem.put(BlipKitAssembler.INSTR_ATTACK, float(BlipKitTrack.NOTE_C_5))
assem.put(BlipKitAssembler.INSTR_TICK, 18)
assem.put(BlipKitAssembler.INSTR_ATTACK, float(BlipKitTrack.NOTE_C_6))
assem.put(BlipKitAssembler.INSTR_VOLUME_SLIDE, 162)
assem.put(BlipKitAssembler.INSTR_VOLUME, 0.0)
assem.put(BlipKitAssembler.INSTR_TICK, 162)
assem.put(BlipKitAssembler.INSTR_RELEASE)
assem.put(BlipKitAssembler.INSTR_VOLUME_SLIDE, 0)
assem.put(BlipKitAssembler.INSTR_VOLUME, 1.0)
assem.put(BlipKitAssembler.INSTR_TICK, 180)

# Jump back to label "start".
assem.put(BlipKitAssembler.INSTR_JUMP, "start")

# Compile byte code and check for errors.
if assem.compile() != BlipKitAssembler.OK:
    printerr(assem.get_error_message())
    return

# Get the byte code.
var bytes := assem.get_byte_code()
```
## Methods

- *void* [**`clear`**](#void-clear)()
- *int* [**`compile`**](#int-compile)()
- *PackedByteArray* [**`get_byte_code`**](#packedbytearray-get_byte_code-const)() const
- *String* [**`get_error_message`**](#string-get_error_message-const)() const
- *int* [**`put`**](#int-putinstruction-int-arg_1-variant--null-arg_2-variant--null-arg_3-variant--null)(instruction: int, arg_1: Variant = null, arg_2: Variant = null, arg_3: Variant = null)
- *int* [**`put_code`**](#int-put_codecode-string)(code: String)
- *int* [**`put_label`**](#int-put_labellabel-string)(label: String)

## Enumerations

### enum `Instruction`

- `INSTR_ATTACK` = `2`
	- Sets `BlipKitTrack.note`. Expects a `float` argument.
- `INSTR_RELEASE` = `3`
	- Calls `BlipKitTrack.release()`. Expects no arguments.
- `INSTR_MUTE` = `4`
	- Calls `BlipKitTrack.mute()`. Expects no arguments.
- `INSTR_WAVEFORM` = `5`
	- Sets `BlipKitTrack.waveform`. Expects [`BlipKitTrack.Waveform`](#enum-blipkittrackwaveform) as `int` argument.
- `INSTR_CUSTOM_WAVEFORM` = `6`
	- Sets `BlipKitTrack.custom_waveform` from the given slot. Expects a slot index as `int` argument between `0` and `255`.

Which [`BlipKitWaveform`](BlipKitWaveform.md) is used is define with `BlipKitInterpreter.set_waveform`.
- `INSTR_DUTY_CYCLE` = `7`
	- Sets `BlipKitTrack.duty_cycle`. Expects an `int` argument between `0` and `15`
- `INSTR_EFFECT_DIV` = `8`
	- Sets `BlipKitTrack.effect_divider`. Expects an `int` argument between `0` and `65536`.
- `INSTR_VOLUME` = `9`
	- Sets `BlipKitTrack.volume`. Expects a `float` argument between `0.0` and `1.0`.
- `INSTR_VOLUME_SLIDE` = `10`
	- Sets `BlipKitTrack.volume_slide`. Expects an `int` argument between `0` and `65536`.
- `INSTR_MASTER_VOLUME` = `11`
	- Sets `BlipKitTrack.master_volume`. Expects a `float` argument between `0.0` and `1.0`.
- `INSTR_PANNING` = `12`
	- Sets `BlipKitTrack.panning`. Expects a `float` argument between `-1.0` and `+1.0`.
- `INSTR_PANNING_SLIDE` = `13`
	- Sets `BlipKitTrack.panning_slide`. Expects an `int` argument between `0` and `65536`.
- `INSTR_PITCH` = `14`
	- Sets `BlipKitTrack.pitch`. Expects a `float` argument.
- `INSTR_PHASE_WRAP` = `15`
	- Sets `BlipKitTrack.phase_wrap`. Expects an `int` argument.
- `INSTR_PORTAMENTO` = `16`
	- Sets `BlipKitTrack.portamento`. Expects an `int` argument between `0` and `65536`.
- `INSTR_VIBRATO` = `17`
	- Calls `BlipKitTrack.set_vibrato()`. Expects `ticks` (`int` between `0` and `65536`), `delta` (`float`) and `slide_ticks` (`int` between `0` and `65536`).
- `INSTR_TREMOLO` = `18`
	- Calls `BlipKitTrack.set_tremolo()`. Expects `ticks` (`int` between `0` and `65536`), `delta` (`float`) and `slide_ticks` (`int` between `0` and `65536`).
- `INSTR_ARPEGGIO` = `19`
	- Sets `BlipKitTrack.arpeggio`. Expects a [`PackedFloat32Array`](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/stable/classes/class_packedfloat32array.html) argument.
- `INSTR_ARPEGGIO_DIV` = `20`
	- Sets `BlipKitTrack.arpeggio_divider`. Expects an `int` argument between `0` and `65536`.
- `INSTR_INSTRUMENT` = `21`
	- Sets `BlipKitTrack.instrument` from the given slot. Expects a slot index between `0` and `255` as `int` argument.

Which [`BlipKitInstrument`](BlipKitInstrument.md) used is define with `BlipKitInterpreter.set_instrument`.
- `INSTR_INSTRUMENT_DIV` = `22`
	- Sets `BlipKitTrack.instrument_divider`. Expects an `int` argument between `0` and `65536`.
- `INSTR_TICK` = `23`
	- Interrupts the execution for a number of *ticks*. Expects an `int` argument between `0` and `65536`.
- `INSTR_CALL` = `24`
	- Calls a named label like a function. Expects a label name as [`String`](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/stable/classes/class_string.html) argument.

**Note:** The label is not required to be defined at this point and can also be set later with [`put_label()`](#int-put_labellabel-string).
- `INSTR_RETURN` = `25`
	- Returns from a function call made with [`INSTR_CALL`](#instr_call). Expects no arguments.
- `INSTR_JUMP` = `26`
	- Jumps to a named label. Expects the label name as [`String`](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/stable/classes/class_string.html) argument.

**Note:** The label is not required to be defined at this point and can also be set later with [`put_label()`](#int-put_labellabel-string).
- `INSTR_RESET` = `27`
	- Calls `BlipKitTrack.reset()`. Expects no arguments.
- `INSTR_STORE` = `28`
	- Stores a value in a register. Expects the register number as `int` argument between `0` and `15`, and the value as `int` argument.

The value can be read with `BlipKitInterpreter.get_register()`.

### enum `Error`

- `OK` = `0`
	- No error.
- `ERR_INVALID_STATE` = `1`
	- The assembler is not in the correct state.
- `ERR_INVALID_INSTR` = `2`
	- The instruction is invalid.
- `ERR_INVALID_ARGUMENT` = `3`
	- An instruction argument is invalid.
- `ERR_DUPLICATE_LABEL` = `4`
	- A named label already exists with the same name.
- `ERR_UNDEFINED_LABEL` = `5`
	- A named label is not defined with the given name.
- `ERR_PARSER_ERROR` = `6`
	- 

## Method Descriptions

### `void clear()`

Clears all instructions, labels and errors.

### `int compile()`

Resolves label addresses and generated the byte code. Call [`get_byte_code()`](#packedbytearray-get_byte_code-const) to get the byte code.

Call [`clear()`](#void-clear) to generate new byte code.

### `PackedByteArray get_byte_code() const`

Returns the generated byte code.

Returns an empty array if [`compile()`](#int-compile) was not called yet, or an error occurred.

### `String get_error_message() const`

Returns the last error as string.

Returns an empty string if no error occurred.

### `int put(instruction: int, arg_1: Variant = null, arg_2: Variant = null, arg_3: Variant = null)`

Adds an instruction and returns [`OK`](#ok) on success. See [`Instruction`](#enum-instruction) for the required arguments.

Returns [`ERR_INVALID_INSTR`](#err_invalid_instr) if `instruction` is not valid.

Returns [`ERR_INVALID_ARGUMENT`](#err_invalid_argument) if the arguments are invalid for `instruction`.

### `int put_code(code: String)`

Parses a string containing instructions.

Returns [`ERR_PARSER_ERROR`](#err_parser_error) if a parser error occurred.

**Note:** This method is not implemented yet.

### `int put_label(label: String)`

Adds a named label at the current position which can be referenced by [`INSTR_CALL`](#instr_call) and [`INSTR_JUMP`](#instr_jump) instructions.

Returns [`ERR_DUPLICATE_LABEL`](#err_duplicate_label) if a label with the same name is already defined.


